Linux Commands (What I Did)
"So I started exploring Linux, and here's what I ended up doing.
I ran ls to see what files were in the directory. Then I used cd to move into different folders. I created some empty files using touch, just to test things out.
Whenever I wanted to display something in the terminal, I used echo.
When I didn’t know what a command did, I checked the manual with man.
I also found ls -lh really helpful—it showed me file sizes in a readable way like MB instead of just bytes.
At one point, I needed to duplicate a file, so I used cp, and then I tried mv when I had to rename one.
Lastly, I played with chmod to change permissions and understand how access works for files."

Malware Analysis (What I Learned)
"I got into some basic malware analysis too.
First, I did static analysis, where I just looked at the code without running anything—kind of like reading the recipe without cooking.
Then I tried dynamic analysis, where I ran the malware in a safe lab setup to watch what it actually does in real time.
While digging deeper, I came across some cool stuff:

I learned about ATA software, which detects weird or suspicious activity in networks.

I came across something called prompt injection—basically, people can feed sneaky inputs to mess with AI responses.

I worked in Bash, the command-line shell, to run Linux commands.

I also explored the Villain Framework, which is like a toolkit for managing reverse shells during penetration testing.

One thing that surprised me was how AV scans can detect malware on disk, but they often miss the stuff running in memory."

Git Workflow (What I Did with Git)
"When working with Git, I started by cloning a repository using:
git clone <repo-link>
Then I checked the status of my repo with:
git status
Whenever I made changes, I added them using:
git add .
After that, I committed those changes with a message like:
git commit -m "Added login feature"
And when I was done, I pushed it all to GitHub using:
git push
It felt smooth once I got the hang of it!"

chmod (How I Figured It Out)
"At one point, I needed to understand file permissions, so I looked into chmod.
I learned that each file has permissions for the owner, group, and others, and each of them can read (r), write (w), or execute (x) a file.
The numbers behind chmod made sense once I realized it’s just basic math:
r = 4, w = 2, x = 1
So, full access is 7 (4+2+1).
If I wanted the owner to have full access and everyone else just read and execute, I’d use:
chmod 755 filename
That was a big “aha!” moment for me."

